feat: introduce react-hook-form (#3632)
DimensionDev/Maskbook: docs/form-guide.md

# Form Guide

## General content

We use [`react-hook-form`](https://react-hook-form.com/) and [`zod`](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod#error-formatting) to create the form. Here are the basic steps to create a simple form

### 1. Use `zod` to create form field schema

You can set error message with i18n, you can read this file to learn about [i18n](i18n-guide.md)

```js
import { z as zod } from 'zod'
const t = useI18n() // Set errror messge with i18n.
const schema = zod.object({
  name: zod.string(), // string
  age: zod.number(t.needBeNumber).positive(t.needGreaterThanZero), // > 0
  country: zod.string(t.countyNeedBeString).optional(), // string | undefiend
  address: zod
    .string()
    .min(1)
    .refine((address) => ValidAddress(address), t.InvalidAddress), // You can use other methods to validate this field
})
```

### 2. Call `useForm` to get the method collection

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
```

Then reformat this file. `useForm<formType>` has been splitter into multiple lines

import { zodResolver } from '@hookform/resolvers/zod'
import { useForm } from 'react-hook-form'

const methods =
  useForm <
  formType >
  {
    resolver: zodResolver(schema),
    defaultValues: {
      name: '',
      age: 1,
      address: '',
    },
  }
```

> `react-hook-form` provides [optional argumenjs](https://react-hook-form.com/api/useform) and you can change to meet your expectations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`react-hook-form` provides [optional argumenjs](https://react-hook-form.com/api/useform), you can change it on demand.
```

# Form Guide

## General content

We use [`react-hook-form`](https://react-hook-form.com/) and [`zod`](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod#error-formatting) to create the form. Here are the basic steps to create a simple form

### 1. Use `zod` to create form field schema

You can set error message with i18n, you can read this file to learn about [i18n](i18n-guide.md)

> ```js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```tsx
```

import { z as zod } from 'zod'

export function ComponentForm() {

>   const t = useI18n() // Set errror messge with i18n.
>   const schema = zod.object({
>     name: zod.string(), // string
>     age: zod.number(t.needBeNumber).positive(t.needGreaterThanZero), // > 0
>     country: zod.string(t.countyNeedBeString).optional(), // string | undefiend

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  const t = useComponentI18N() // Set errror messge with i18n.
  const schema = zod.object({
    name: zod.string(), // string
    age: zod.number(t.needBeNumber()).positive(t.needGreaterThanZero()), // > 0
    country: zod.string(t.countyNeedBeString()).optional(), // string | undefiend
```

i reference this code snippet:

https://github.com/DimensionDev/Maskbook/blob/06147ebf244b3365368105ca210551971917fc23/packages/dashboard/src/pages/Settings/index.tsx#L33-L44

# Form Guide

## General content

We use [`react-hook-form`](https://react-hook-form.com/) and [`zod`](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod#error-formatting) to create the form. Here are the basic steps to create a simple form

### 1. Use `zod` to create form field schema

```js
import { z as zod } from 'zod'

const schema = zod.object({
  name: zod.string(), // string
  age: zod.number('The age need be a number').positive('The age need to greater than 0'), // > 0
  country: zod.string('The country need be a string').optional(), // string | undefiend
  address: zod
    .string()
    .min(1)
    .refine((address) => ValidAddress(address), 'Invalid Address'), // You can use other methods to validate this field
})
```

### 2. Create type to be compatible with schema

```

> type formType = {

Reviewer: This is a huge waste of the `zod` library ability. `zod` support inference type from the schema object. See https://www.npmjs.com/package/zod#type-inference

  name: string
  age: number
  country?: string
  address: string
}
```

### 3. Call `useForm` to get the method collection

```js
import { zodResolver } from '@hookform/resolvers/zod'
import { useForm } from 'react-hook-form'

const methods = useForm<formType>({
    resolver: zodResolver(schema)
    defaultValues: {
        name: '',
        age: 1,
        address: ''
    }
})
```

`react-hook-form` provides [optional argumenjs](https://react-hook-form.com/api/useform) and you can change to meet your expectations

### 4. Create form UI with `Controller` and Material-UI component

The `react-hook-form` provides the `Controller` component without import other packages to support UI libraries

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
```

const {
  control,
  handleSubmit,
  formState: { errors, dirtyFields, isDirty },
} = useForm(options)

const onSubmit = handleSubmit((data) => doSomething())

return (
  <form>
    <Controller
      render={({ field }) => <TextField {...field} helperText={errors.name?.message} error={dirtyFields.name} />}
      name="name"
    />
    <Button onClick={onSubmit} disabled={!isValid} />
  </form>
)
```

## Caveats

### Use `useFormContext` to get methods in children component

> In practice, you may encounter situations where you need to get form methods in the children component. You can use `useFormContext` and `FormProvider` to resolve this question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In practice, you may need to get form methods in the children component. You can use `useFormContext` and `FormProvider` to resolve this problem.
```

```js
// Parent component
const methods = useForm()
return <FormProvider {...methods}>....</FormProvider>

// Children component
const { control, register, formState } = useFormContext()
```

### Set field

Sometimes we need set some field from remote data. You can use `setValue` to change these field. If you want to trigger valid while setting the field, you can add the `shouldValid` option

> ```js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
```

const { watch, setValue } = useForm()

// You can use watch to monitor some field change
const address = watch('address')
useEffect(() => {
  const { symbol } = fetchDataByAddress(address)
  setValue('symbol', symbol, { shouldValid: true })
}, [address])
```

### Be careful with watch

> Sometimes we need to listen the field update to do something. Although you can use `watch` to listen field. But it will cause re-render problem. At the time of use you can think about whether you can use `getValues` to accomplish your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes we need to listen to the field update to do something. Although you can use `watch` to react to a field. But it will cause extra renders and cause a potential performance problem. Try to use `getValues` if that suits you.
```

### 1. Use `zod` to create form field schema

You can set error message with i18n, you can read this file to learn about [i18n](i18n-guide.md)

```js
import { z as zod } from 'zod'

> const t = useI18n() // Set errror messge with i18n.

Reviewer 2: stop, schema definition may not be react-hook

Author: 🤔  Then perhaps i18n support will not be available

Reviewer 3: We can create the schema inside a component (might memoize with useMemo), then we can use the hook.

Author: > We can create the schema inside a component (might memoize with useMemo), then we can use the hook.

Yes, that's how it works in the demo.
